OK so in this video we're going to look at how we can change columns data type so you can see here.
I've already written out DSU over how we can change columns data type.
So we need to type out a table followed by the table name followed by the word modify and then the column
names the name of the column which we want to modify followed by that data type which we want to change
that column to.
So let's look at a few examples of changing columns data type.
So you can see here I run describe addresses and then down here I have the results so you can see the
four columns in the addresses table Id house number City and postcode.
And you can see that data type here so is in Vauxhall and Vachel.
So let's say we wanted to change the city's data type from Vallejo 20 to 40 or 30 say someone's from
a city with a really long name long within 20 letters.
So we need to change the data type to 40 or 30 to do that.
We can come in here and we can type out a table followed by the table name so address is followed by
modify followed by the column name so City followed by the new data type which is vulture phatty and
then end with a semi-colon.
And we can run the query and you can see off we run describe addresses again that are new data type
for this city column is full of 30.
Now that's changed the city column from one Vaugirard data type to another Vaugirard data type but we
can actually change it to any data type we like.
We can come in here and we can change it to chart data type of length 25 and run this statement again.
And then when we describe addresses again you can see that now our city column is a data type job.
So a completely different data type to Vauxhall and we were able to do this using this command table
addresses modify city chala 25 and we can even change the city column to an in state type.
So we can go from a string data type to a number data type by just typing city in and then running that
query and if we run describe addresses again you can see that now the city called in is of data type
IMs but that doesn't really make sense.
So let's change it back to what it originally was Baulch all 20 run query.
And describe addresses.
And now you can see it's back to March or 20.
So this is how we change McCollum's data type in my school.
We use alter table followed by the table name will apply modify a name column name and then the new
data type.
But you do have to be careful when changing a column's data type.
We were able to change columns data type to anything we liked.
In this example because the addresses table has no rows of data in it it's an empty table.
But let's say we already had some data entered into our addresses table let's say in the city column
we already had some data entered like London Manchester or Liverpool.
Then if we try to modify the city's data type from Vaugirard 20 to INS It wouldn't allow us to do this
because the data that's already been entered is not compatible with the data type.
London is not an end so we can't change the city data type to an end.
Simply we wouldn't be able to change it to a char because London Manchester Liverpool have different
lengths so we could have no Chaar with that fixed length to satisfy London Manchester and Liverpool.
But we were able to change the data type from Vallejo 20 to 40 or 30 because London Manchester and Liverpool
are all compatible with Lavarch of 20 and Lavarch or 30 data type.
So something to bear in mind when you're thinking about modifying a column's data type.